our generation has a problem with the
difference between the difficulty in
doing a thing and evaluating whether or
not that thing is worthwhile meaningful
helpful salubrious morally good
difficulty has absolutely nothing to do
with whether or not a given action
program or goal is actually worthwhile
and I was reminded of this strange habit
of mind I feel my whole generation is
caught up in when numerous numerous
people write in to me saying that no no
no I fail to appreciate how meaningful
and good a use of their time it was as
adults to play video games for hundreds
of hours because I haven't tried these
video games I don't realize how
difficult they are so if it's
complicated if it's hard to do it must
be meaningful and it must be good right
and by the same token our generation
really ignores the most important virtue
because it's simple and it's easy and
that's honesty honesty in and of itself
is not hard to practice but honesty for
example is incompatible with flattery
had a female friend talking to me just a
couple days ago and she's known me for
years and she said to me I'm
paraphrasing I'm not gonna use exactly
the words that she said she basically
said to me that it was kind of a problem
for her that I never told her that she
was beautiful I think it was a problem
for her about four years ago and I think
it's still kind of a problem for her now
and I want to make this clear this is
not a situation in which I'm in any way
intentionally
this is that a situation in which I'm
like trying to give her low self-esteem
and you know what I said to her you know
see why I'm saying this to you now what
some look that's not who you are to me
okay I'm not gonna lie to you I'm not
gonna fly to you I'm not gonna
manipulate you and if that hurts your
feelings I'm sorry like I really am I
can apologize for her to your feelings
but I'm not gonna lie to you and I'm not
gonna lie to myself and I hope that you
can take some kind of reassurance from
that in the future that you know in this
friendship as time goes on if I tell you
something positive it's not flattery I
really mean it enough to tell you
something negative you can you can take
it seriously and I know that people have
convinced themselves that it's a virtue
to go through life telling everyone that
they're beautiful all the time and what
slips away is exactly this simple easy
concept of honesty that only becomes
difficult to live with when we realize
in practice it's not compatible with
flattery it's not compatible with a 21st
century culture that wants to pretend
that human equality means that everyone
has an equally beautiful face or that
everyone can do the same number of
push-ups or that everyone can lift the
same amount of weight that's not what
equality means that's not what it ever
meant that's not what it meant in the
French Revolution and it's not what it
meant in the American Civil War okay
human equality is about the Equality of
political rights and responsibilities it
doesn't mean that everyone has the same
face it doesn't mean that everyone is
the same strength or that their beauty
is valued equally what it means is that
when you go to City Hall when you go to
Parliament when you go to Congress when
you
korte you won't be judged on how pretty
your faces your ability to vote your
ability to have a voice your ability to
determine the future of your government
or a nation state that those rights
should not be accorded to you unequally
because of these arbitrary inequalities
that we live with it doesn't mean those
arbitrary qualities don't exist we all
get to share one and the same standard
for rights and responsibilities we don't
have the same face and we don't all get
to wear the same mask it's coming back
to this intimate and immediate human
scale all right
this Fremont friend of mine I'm not
joking I did apologize look I know this
hurts you okay I know this is her phones
I apologize and apparently hurt her
feelings
four years ago we're at some in fact
under then it impacts now it's a
friendship that's now gone on for for
many years okay said to her when you
first met me years ago I knew some women
who were models working in the modeling
history they look like models I knew
some women who were athletes whether
those be personal trainers at the gym or
the type of people you meet and talk
with him the internet or various
constituency I knew some women who were
lawyers and professors and doctors and
various walks of life and you weren't
any of those okay that's not who you are
to me I knew women I still know some
nail not really I thought talking really
at the moment I knew some women who put
photographs of themselves in bikinis on
the internet and where that's a big part
of their career and their identity and
that's what they look like and that's it
there and that's not who you are to me
that's now how that's not how I think of
you I don't think of you as someone who
I got to know or got interested in or
liked because you were beautiful
okay then I said and now here's who you
are to me positively here's what I liked
about you here's what interested me
here's what made me want to get to know
you better
here's what made me feel some kind of
trust or curiosity or interest in you
and to see where this is gonna go all
right and guess what it has absolutely
nothing to do with the way that you look
and if you get insulted by that if you
feel like that's a bad thing maybe all
of us need to stop and reflect a little
bit on the real consequences of this
culture in which men and only men are
trained to go around lying and telling
everyone that they're beautiful that
they're thin that they're fitted all the
time with this behavior is expected of
men and it's not expected of women all
right if we flip that around if you're a
man in the audience if you ask yourself
would you benefit as a man from living
in a culture where you got nothing but
positive feedback all the time that had
nothing to do with your real appearance
with your real physique with your real
fitness even with your real style of
dress or with your real intelligence or
your real accomplishments how would that
benefit you as a man that would only
encourage you to engage in wishful
thinking or self-deception so on and so
forth right it's hard to see how that
could have a positive impact on anything
wouldn't even be positive for your for
your so-called self-esteem flattery
is corrupting both to the person who's
flattered and to the person who's
telling the lie and I do think in its
little subtle way this it's weakened or
whole generation and has put us in
situations like this one where people
sometimes in this case someone who knows
me personally and sometimes members the
audience right into me with a sense of
outrage saying what do you mean you
don't think all these women are
beautiful what do you mean you don't
think we should get a commis moment and
the expectation there
maybe maybe it's tainted also by the
flip side of this of people like pickup
artists and dating coaches trying to
commercialize and make money out of
teaching you how to be a better
flatterer how to be more manipulative
when you flatter people how to tell
women that they're beautiful with these
other outcomes and so on and so forth
right and then that becomes pervasive
enough that when I say hey look I don't
lie to people one where the other I
really keep it real with everyone in my
intimate life my personal life and here
on YouTube I'm honest about this all the
time
not everyone gets to be a model not
everyone gets to be an actor or an
actress you know this is an aspect of
arbitrary inequality we all have to live
with one way or the other so let's try
to live with it constructive let's try
to face up with it and work with what we
got and not lie to ourselves guys I
think a lot of people in the audience
the people who run into me to complain
they're so deeply conditioned to regard
this as like a strategy as like a PUA
technique like a pickup artists
technique like oh like you're trying to
lower someone's self-esteem or make them
feel bad and no no I'm not you know I'm
trying to have personal integrity in
everything in my life right I don't see
how it could possibly be that personal
integrity is something you think only
matters at the bank at the office in
your profession and that somehow it
matters less with your personal friends
and your lovers if you have a friend who
wants to be a stand-up comedian and
they're telling jokes their night at the
improv when they go to the open mic
night if they go to the audition and
nobody laughs what's your role as a
friend should you lie to them and say oh
no no your jokes were really funny I was
laughing I thought it was it was just a
bad audience should you make up every
excuse Under the Sun for why their jokes
weren't funny when you personally don't
think they're funny you didn't laugh are
you gonna lie to your friend tell them
they're hilarious is that going to help
them progress what are the real impact
short-term and long-term of your lack of
integrity
right can't we be honest with one
another sure about our appearances about
our talents about our aspirations and if
we can't if we can't practice honesty
integrity on this intimate scale
one-to-one how is your friend gonna
become a better comedian
how are any of us gonna make better
choices right about that strange
uncertain road toward leading a
meaningful life all right
I deeply deeply resent the fact that so
many jobs in our society are hired on
the basis of physical appearance I think
that's a profound problem none of us
have really yet begun to grapple with
and it's gonna be a problem that
ultimately has a legislative solution I
don't think that waiters and waitresses
or the people who stand at the front of
the bank when you go to do your banking
I don't think any of those jobs should
be hired in the basis of physical
appearance I don't even think the people
who read the news on TV should be hired
on the basis of their appearance I wish
we had much more intelligent well
informed well educated people talking
about politics on television and if they
were hideously ugly wouldn't matter to
me in the least that'd be a great
improvement I'd say well this person is
ugly but at least they know politics of
economics or history or something we
live in a society where it seems like
the bimbos who read the teleprompters
have reinvented the earth in their own
image where instagram has gobbled up
more and more of the intellectual
cultural space and gradually has
transformed people's attitudes to being
entirely about this surface level
evaluation amenity and even let's stick
with the example of the standard
comedian if you're hilarious and you can
tell good jokes I hope it isn't too
important if you happen to be ugly or
fat or out of shape or whatever the case
might be and hey maybe comedy is the
last area we're really ugly people can
get ahead I don't know maybe that's
finally where the flattery stops it's a
problem we all have to deal with but the
solution cannot be living a lie the
solution cannot be
pounding and ideology that each and
every one of us is beautiful that all of
us are wearing the same hat that all of
us share the same face or that all of us
were the same mask and it asks you to
stop and reflect on the most intimate
relationships in your life and the most
impersonal relationships here on the
Internet to what extent has that habit
of flattery corrupted even you